.TH PBWT 1
.SH NAME
pbwt - Portable Multithreaded Burrows-Wheeler Transform + Run Length Encoding Compressor/Decompressor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbwt
[OPTIONS]
[<input_file>]
If <input_file> is omitted, input file is STDIN.
.br
If <input_file> is STDIN and output file is omitted (no valid -o flag), output file is STDOUT (like -c flag).
.br
Other processes can send signal SIGUSR1 to get progress info.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pbwt
Portable Multithreaded Burrows-Wheeler Transform + Run Length Encoding Compressor/Decompressor.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -c
Write output to STDOUT (ignored if valid -o flag exists).
.TP
.BR -d
Decompression mode.
.TP
.BR -h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR -j " "\fR<1-n>
Number of parallel jobs (threads). If omitted or wrong value, fallback to all available threads (n).
.TP
.BR -o " "\fR<output_name>
Custom output filename (if omitted, output filename is input_file.bwt in compression and without .bwt in decompression mode).
.br
If given string ends with '/' (path delimiter), output is then given path + above rule.
.TP
.BR -p " "\fR<1-9>
Compression preset level (ignored in decompression mode).
.br
Higher presets may give better compression ratio (if omitted or wrong value, preset is 5).
.TP
.BR -r
Remove input file after successful operation (ignored when input file is STDIN).
.TP
.BR -v
Verbose mode - show statistics after successful operation.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.BR 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.BR 1
Operational error.
.SH AUTHORS
Ricardo Cerljenko (ricardo.cerljenko@gmail.com)
